---
title : "Tokenization at API level"
weight: 91
meta_title: "Tokenization, What it is - MultiSafepay Docs"
meta_description: "The MultiSafepay Documentation Center presents all relevant information about our Plugins and API. You can also find support pages for payment methods, tools and general questions as well as the contact details of our Support and Integration Teams."
read_more: '.'
---

## What it is
When applied to the payment industry, tokenization is generally used for credit card payments. However, it is also available for debit payment methods, such as iDEAL and SOFORT Banking. Tokenization means that for every credit or debit card, a unique Recurring ID is created and subsequently encrypted as a token. The payment token itself is the unique string of numbers. As result, a unique security identifier is created to finalize a payment and potential risks are reduced.


## How it works
The token is a unique number generated by MultiSafepay that refers to the credit or debit card details provided by the customer upon completing the initial transaction. Creating a token allows you to save a customer's payment method. In return, a token can be used for recurring and subscription payments. It also allows the customer to finalize a payment in one step by selecting the stored payment details in his or her account. 

Tokenization gives you the possibility to link the payment details of a customer to a reference ID, allowing you to: 

* Create recurring and/or subscription payments, recommended to any businesses with subscription payments or which generate significant business with repeat customers
* Due to the tokens that are securely stored, they can be used to enable “one-click” payments for future transactions
* List multiple tokens to a customer reference
* Retrieve token information or delete a token.

## What is tokenization available for?

Available for JSON API only. You can find more details on our [API documentation on tokenization](/api/#tokenization-recurring-model)

Tokens processed by the payment method SEPA Direct Debit "DIRDEB" are originally received by an iDEAL or SOFORT Banking transaction. 

| Parameter                      | Type      | Description |
|--------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type | string | Specifies the payment flow for the checkout process. Options: direct, redirect |
| gateway | string | The unique gateway_id to immediately direct the customer to the payment method. You retrieve these gateways using a gateway request. Option: AMEX, VISA, MASTERCARD and DIRDEB |
| recurring_id | string | The randomly generated recurring id for the customer |
| reference | string | Customer reference to link a token |
| recurring_model | string | The type of recurring model to be used: unscheduled, cardOnFile, subscription  |




