---
title : "How can I generate a payment link in the backend of OpenCart?"
meta_title: "OpenCart payment link - MultiSafepay Docs"
meta_description: "The MultiSafepay Documentation Center presents all relevant information about our Plugins and API. You can also find support pages for payment methods, tools and general questions as well as the contact details of our Support and Integration Teams."
layout: "faqdetail"
read_more: "."
---

It is possible to generate a payment link when an order has been created at the backend in OpenCart. 

The customer will receive the payment link in the email send by OpenCart with the order details. Also the payment link will be added to the order history details. 
 
Please follow these instructions:

1. Log in to your backend and navigate to _System_ → _Localisation_ → _Order Status_.
2. Register a custom order status that will be used to set the order Status when the payment link is sended.
3. Navigate to _Extensions_ → _Payments_ → _MultiSafepay_ and set as yes the field _Generate payment links at the admin_, after that set the previously create order status in the _Payment Request_ field, in _Options_ tab.
4. If you want to reserve the stock units, of the items presents in the orders generated by the admin,  while the order is still pending to pay, navigate to _System_ → _Settings_ → _Store_ → _Options_ tab. And set the order status previously registered as _Payment Request_ in the _Processing Order Status_ field. 
5. Now you can  navigate to _Sales_ → _Orders_ → _Add New Order_ and set all the details of the order in _Customer Details_ tab, _Products_ tab, _Payment Details_ tab, _Shipping Details_ tab.
6. When you arrives to the fifth step _Totals_, select a MultiSafepay payment method in the _Payment Method_ field, and select the order status previously registered as _Payment Request_ in the _Order Status_ field.
7. Process the order clicking on the save button.
8. The customer will receive the payment link in the email. This one will also be saved in the order history.